.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH DESMUME 1 "June 26, 2007"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
desmume-glade \- Nintendo DS emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B desmume-glade
.RI [ options ] " files" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B desmume-glade
program
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBdesmume\fP is a Nintendo DS emulator running homebrew demos and commercial games.
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-\-load-slot=NUM
Loads savegame from slot NUM
.TP
.B \-\-soft-convert
Use software colour conversion during OpenGL screen rendering. May produce better or worse frame rates depending on hardware.
.TP
.B \-\-3d-engine=ENGINE
Select available 3d emulation:
.RS
0 = 3d disabled
.RE
.RS
1 = internal desmume software rasterizer (default)
.RE
.RS
2 = osmesa or gtkglext opengl (if available, depending on compilation options, see desmume \-\-help)
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-disable-limiter
Disables the 60 fps limiter
.TP
.B \-\-arm9gdb=PORT_NUM
Enable the ARM9 GDB stub on the given port
.TP
.B \-\-arm7gdb=PORT_NUM
Enable the ARM7 GDB stub on the given port
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.SH INPUT
Mouse cursor acts as stylus, mouse click replaces stylus touch.
.PP
Keyboard can be configured and by default works as follows:
.RS
F1-F10 load savegame from slot 1-10
.RE
.RS
Shift+F1-F10 save game to slot 1-10
.RE
.RS
Non-keypad arrows act as d-pad
.RE
.RS
z = A
.RE
.RS
x = B
.RE
.RS
a = Y
.RE
.RS
s = X
.RE
.RS
q = L
.RE
.RS
w = R
.RE
.RS
Enter = START
.RE
.RS
Left Shift = SELECT
.RE
.PP
Desmume accepts joystick events, which can be configured by user.
.SH AUTHOR
desmume was written by DeSmuME team
(http://sourceforge.net/projects/desmume).
.PP
This manual page was written by Pascal Giard <pascal@debian.org>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
